README.md, before:

# Final-Project Submission Requirements
● At least 4 unique sprites, 2 of which must be animated
- player(animated)
- sleeping eevee will be animated into the house, but for now it is hardcoded into map
- standing eevee will be animated into the house, but for now it is hardcoded into map
- lavablobs have a single sprite

● One of the two following background requirements are implemented (you do not
need to implement both)
○ used parallax movement in forest level

● Modify background tiles, sprite tiles, and/or palette (either) at runtime
○ Palette Modification at runtime in volcano level

● The following states: START, INSTRUCTIONS, GAME, PAUSE
○ The GAME state must be implemented in a tiled mode, such as Mode 0
○ You may (but are not required to) use other modes for other states (ask
your TAs for tips if you’re confused)

● A WIN and/or LOSE state
○ Win state when both evolution stones are collected

● Meaningful collision
○ collision with doors, lava pools, lava rocks, and evolution stones

CS 2261 Spring 2022
● Includes meaningful use of timers and/or interrupts (other than vBlank interrupt
and digital sound)

● At least two sounds that can play simultaneously, of which at least one must use
digital sound
○ At least one must be looping
○ At least one must not loop

● A cheat to make the game easier
○ The game must be winnable (if your game includes a win state) without
the cheat
○ Not just skipping to the win state; not just an “invincible” mode; not just
removing a conditional. It must meaningfully change existing mechanics or
introduce an entirely new one – please be creative (and ask your TA for
ideas/guidance). This is an area where people tend to lose points when
they haven't consulted their TA for guidance.
● The ability to play the game correctly without being told how to do so ahead of
time
○ Aided only be the in-game instructions and menus
● Bug-free gameplay
● Multiple.c and .h files
● A recorded demo of gameplay (unless you volunteer for early demo)

# Final-Project Milestone 4
Every state of the game must have its own background. 
- I have this!

All sprites must have artwork that is not just a blank square or placeholder from
previous milestones (if your game requires it to be only a blank square, let us know
ahead of time, but this is likely not the case for most, if not all, of you). There must be at
least four unique sprites, of which two are animated, where "animated" means three or
more frames of a looping animation. You may not use any sprite art that has been used
in a lab before.
- player(animated)
- sleeping eevee will be animated into the house, but for now it is hardcoded into map
- standing eevee will be animated into the house, but for now it is hardcoded into map
- lavablobs have a single sprite

Part 3: Sounds
- one sound for entire game atm(will add more for final project)
- one sound for collisions

Part 4: Changing tiles, tilemap, or palette at runtime
- volcano palette manipulated each iteration to give illusion of heat

Part 5: Timer or interrupt
- will add a timer into volcano level, so that level ends when pichu overheats. Didn't get to finish for this milestone:(

# Final-Project Milestone 3
make sure to fix the black parts showing up on the edges of the background 
for m03, make sure the rest of your core gameplay is implemented: 
- get all 3 different quest regions implemented (fire stone, leaf stone, and water stone) with the different mechanics
- implement the different stones, - make sure that having all 3 stones takes player to win condition, - add a visual indicator of the stones that the player has already collected. essentially, make sure you have the completed gameplay mechanics!! art doesn’t have to be finalized and gameplay doesn’t have to be perfect, but it should be a playable version, where you can play through the different regions and win the game. as always, make sure to reference the m03 pdf and that you’re meeting all of those requirements. keep up the great work! if you have any questions, please feel free to email me or come to my office hours.
Julia Reuter E Carvalho, Apr 9 at 8:10pm

On the Black Parts:
I actually have black parts drawn into my images, so this was on purpose! I implemented screen scrolling for this milestone, but the main screen still has a thick black outline. I will get rid of this next milestone.
The volcano scene was remade simply with tiles.
The Forest screen was simply implemented with a stone to show movement. This level will be my way of playing with aesthetics, so it will primarily by a visual experience(movement will simply be walking right/left)
The Ocean will be set to automatically scroll, which you will notice when you get to the level. In the next milestone, it will loop for MUCH longer, and obstacles will be implemented

The stones are present, and colliding with all three ends the game for now. I will add more visuals/more complicated obstacles by the next milestone!

Note: you may have to restart the app to play the game again after hitting the win screen.
The inside of the house actually properly displays! Next, I will implement eevees and interaction with them.
I will also implement a foreground screen that displays the stones the player has currently collected. There will be no lose condition, as I want this game to be positive and completion based, and cute!

# Final-Project Milestone 2
 Feedback from M1:
 this is an awesome idea! i appreciate the super detailed milestone!! 

some questions/considerations: - how are you thinking of implementing the player inventory? will it be a separate UI? will there be a limit to how many items the player can hold? - from what i understand, the way you’re thinking of meeting the background requirement doesn’t actually do so! we’re looking for two backgrounds that appear on the screen at the same time, and both move. 

- what will the lava “spurting” movement be like? will it be randomized, or on a set time interval? 
also, where is the lava coming from? overall, i think your concept is really great! i would recommend making sure that it’s not too much to take on with the multiple quest regions (since they have pretty different mechanics). for m2, we want to focus on CORE gameplay mechanics. this is just a prototype and doesn’t have to be perfect or in its finished state yet, but it should satisfy the basic idea of what you want the game to be like. since you have many different regions, let’s aim to get the main environment mostly complete: 

- player should be able to navigate the environment (move left, right, etc.) 
- player should be able to enter the house 
- player should be able to navigate towards quest areas also, i would highly recommend starting on at least one quest region and getting as much done as you can! if you decide to start with the Fire Stone region: 
- player should be able to navigate this environment 
- player should automatically return to town if they get too close to certain areas 
- player should be able to collect firestone, and return to the main environment 

So, here's what I've done:
The player(pikachu atm), can move in all directions. 

Pikachu can enter the house by walking through the entrance. The room is messed up, so instead of making the exit be the door, I made it so that colliding with the vase in the top left corner will return the player to the outside.

Pikachu can go to one quest area so far. I didn't bother opening up all three quest areas. So, to enter the Lava room, you have to go down the bottom path. This is a little finicky right now, so to enter this room, I suggest that you move all the way to the bottom of the screen and then shift from left/right to find the exact exit spot.

The lava room is very simple right now. The firestone(red square) is in the top left corner, and the lavas move down only. I want to make them into a background that rotates at some point, but right now, this is a good baseline.

when the player touched the stone, they teleport to the outside area right now. Later, I will add some animation sequence of the player giving the stone to the eevee, but this is fine for right now.
After the stone is touched, it will permanently disappear from the room. To exit the room, simply travel to the top right, where the stone used to be. This will return you to the outside area.

If the player accidentally hits a lava blob, they are automatically teleported back to the main screen.

Thank you for your feedback on M1, and all your help during office hours! <3

Commit message:

finished main game and added info screen

README.md, after:

# Final-Project Submission Requirements
● At least 4 unique sprites, 2 of which must be animated
- player(animated)
- sleeping eevee will be animated into the house, but for now it is hardcoded into map
- standing eevee will be animated into the house, but for now it is hardcoded into map
- lavablobs have a single sprite

● One of the two following background requirements are implemented (you do not
need to implement both)
○ used parallax movement in forest level

● Modify background tiles, sprite tiles, and/or palette (either) at runtime
○ Palette Modification at runtime in volcano level

● The following states: START, INSTRUCTIONS, GAME, PAUSE
○ The GAME state must be implemented in a tiled mode, such as Mode 0
○ You may (but are not required to) use other modes for other states (ask
your TAs for tips if you’re confused)

● A WIN and/or LOSE state
○ Win state when both evolution stones are collected

● Meaningful collision
○ collision with doors, lava pools, lava rocks, and evolution stones

CS 2261 Spring 2022
● Includes meaningful use of timers and/or interrupts (other than vBlank interrupt
and digital sound)

● At least two sounds that can play simultaneously, of which at least one must use
digital sound
○ At least one must be looping
○ At least one must not loop

● A cheat to make the game easier
○ Press B in the forest to activate the cheat!
○ Not just skipping to the win state; not just an “invincible” mode; not just
removing a conditional. It must meaningfully change existing mechanics or
introduce an entirely new one – please be creative (and ask your TA for
ideas/guidance). This is an area where people tend to lose points when
they haven't consulted their TA for guidance.
● The ability to play the game correctly without being told how to do so ahead of
time
○ Aided only be the in-game instructions and menus
● Bug-free gameplay
● Multiple.c and .h files
● A recorded demo of gameplay (unless you volunteer for early demo)

# Final-Project Milestone 4
Every state of the game must have its own background. 
- I have this!

All sprites must have artwork that is not just a blank square or placeholder from
previous milestones (if your game requires it to be only a blank square, let us know
ahead of time, but this is likely not the case for most, if not all, of you). There must be at
least four unique sprites, of which two are animated, where "animated" means three or
more frames of a looping animation. You may not use any sprite art that has been used
in a lab before.
- player(animated)
- sleeping eevee will be animated into the house, but for now it is hardcoded into map
- standing eevee will be animated into the house, but for now it is hardcoded into map
- lavablobs have a single sprite

Part 3: Sounds
- one sound for entire game atm(will add more for final project)
- one sound for collisions

Part 4: Changing tiles, tilemap, or palette at runtime
- volcano palette manipulated each iteration to give illusion of heat

Part 5: Timer or interrupt
- will add a timer into volcano level, so that level ends when pichu overheats. Didn't get to finish for this milestone:(

# Final-Project Milestone 3
make sure to fix the black parts showing up on the edges of the background 
for m03, make sure the rest of your core gameplay is implemented: 
- get all 3 different quest regions implemented (fire stone, leaf stone, and water stone) with the different mechanics
- implement the different stones, - make sure that having all 3 stones takes player to win condition, - add a visual indicator of the stones that the player has already collected. essentially, make sure you have the completed gameplay mechanics!! art doesn’t have to be finalized and gameplay doesn’t have to be perfect, but it should be a playable version, where you can play through the different regions and win the game. as always, make sure to reference the m03 pdf and that you’re meeting all of those requirements. keep up the great work! if you have any questions, please feel free to email me or come to my office hours.
Julia Reuter E Carvalho, Apr 9 at 8:10pm

On the Black Parts:
I actually have black parts drawn into my images, so this was on purpose! I implemented screen scrolling for this milestone, but the main screen still has a thick black outline. I will get rid of this next milestone.
The volcano scene was remade simply with tiles.
The Forest screen was simply implemented with a stone to show movement. This level will be my way of playing with aesthetics, so it will primarily by a visual experience(movement will simply be walking right/left)
The Ocean will be set to automatically scroll, which you will notice when you get to the level. In the next milestone, it will loop for MUCH longer, and obstacles will be implemented

The stones are present, and colliding with all three ends the game for now. I will add more visuals/more complicated obstacles by the next milestone!

Note: you may have to restart the app to play the game again after hitting the win screen.
The inside of the house actually properly displays! Next, I will implement eevees and interaction with them.
I will also implement a foreground screen that displays the stones the player has currently collected. There will be no lose condition, as I want this game to be positive and completion based, and cute!

# Final-Project Milestone 2
 Feedback from M1:
 this is an awesome idea! i appreciate the super detailed milestone!! 

some questions/considerations: - how are you thinking of implementing the player inventory? will it be a separate UI? will there be a limit to how many items the player can hold? - from what i understand, the way you’re thinking of meeting the background requirement doesn’t actually do so! we’re looking for two backgrounds that appear on the screen at the same time, and both move. 

- what will the lava “spurting” movement be like? will it be randomized, or on a set time interval? 
also, where is the lava coming from? overall, i think your concept is really great! i would recommend making sure that it’s not too much to take on with the multiple quest regions (since they have pretty different mechanics). for m2, we want to focus on CORE gameplay mechanics. this is just a prototype and doesn’t have to be perfect or in its finished state yet, but it should satisfy the basic idea of what you want the game to be like. since you have many different regions, let’s aim to get the main environment mostly complete: 

- player should be able to navigate the environment (move left, right, etc.) 
- player should be able to enter the house 
- player should be able to navigate towards quest areas also, i would highly recommend starting on at least one quest region and getting as much done as you can! if you decide to start with the Fire Stone region: 
- player should be able to navigate this environment 
- player should automatically return to town if they get too close to certain areas 
- player should be able to collect firestone, and return to the main environment 

So, here's what I've done:
The player(pikachu atm), can move in all directions. 

Pikachu can enter the house by walking through the entrance. The room is messed up, so instead of making the exit be the door, I made it so that colliding with the vase in the top left corner will return the player to the outside.

Pikachu can go to one quest area so far. I didn't bother opening up all three quest areas. So, to enter the Lava room, you have to go down the bottom path. This is a little finicky right now, so to enter this room, I suggest that you move all the way to the bottom of the screen and then shift from left/right to find the exact exit spot.

The lava room is very simple right now. The firestone(red square) is in the top left corner, and the lavas move down only. I want to make them into a background that rotates at some point, but right now, this is a good baseline.

when the player touched the stone, they teleport to the outside area right now. Later, I will add some animation sequence of the player giving the stone to the eevee, but this is fine for right now.
After the stone is touched, it will permanently disappear from the room. To exit the room, simply travel to the top right, where the stone used to be. This will return you to the outside area.

If the player accidentally hits a lava blob, they are automatically teleported back to the main screen.

Thank you for your feedback on M1, and all your help during office hours! <3
